# Extra Bold

Figma File: N/A
ID: 8.2
Lesson: 8. Shape
Text: Ready for Review
Type: 📙 Reading
Video: N/A

## Required Reading

*Extra Bold: a feminist inclusive anti-racist non-binary field guide for graphic designers* by Ellen Lupton, Farah Kafei, Jennifer Tobias, Josh A. Halstead, Kaleena Sales, Leslie Xia, Valentina Vergara

[Access online through the Penn State library](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/pensu/reader.action?docID=6690023&ppg=55)

👉 Read page 54–71: “mother cyborg” and “typographic binary”

This book is a great resource for contemporary issues of graphic design, including interviews and practical advice from young designers. Ellen Lupton has written a [number](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/pensu/detail.action?docID=3387329&query=ellen+lupton) of [important books](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/pensu/detail.action?docID=3387581) on typography, which are also available through the university library as ebooks.  

The first chapter I’ve selected for you, “mother cyborg” includes a summary of important writing related to gender and technology, as well as examples of how science fiction can imagine new possibilities for culture and identity. 

A quote on page 61 is particularly relevant to our focus on the syntax and styles of visual design:

> When designers make choices about colors, fonts, textures, symbols, motifs, and images, they are performing styles—and sometimes inventing new ones or generating new meanings through shifts in context… The performance of graphic design is never wholly original or fully liberated from rules.
> 

The second chapter “typographic binaries” focuses on the design and categorization of text, and builds on the discussion of fluid boundaries to imagine new shapes for language — which is highly relevant to this week’s Case Study. 

## Response

I'm these chapter, the authors describe many examples of binaries and hybrids (i.e. cyborgs). Choose one and connect it to your own lived experience. You might describe a social or professional binary, or look for examples of typographic, color-coded, or aesthetic conventions in the world around you. Be sure to include a brief quote from the reading to make it clear how your example is related.

Post your reply to the relevant Canvas discussion.