# Syllabus

Figma File: N/A
ID: 1.1
Lesson: 1. Context
Text: Writing
Type: 📖 Canvas
Video: N/A

# [DART 100](https://bulletins.psu.edu/search/?P=DART%20100) Introduction to Digital Arts and Media Design (3)

## Description

This course introduces students to concepts, skills, language and principles of practice in digital arts and design. This course introduces concepts and principles of practice necessary for digital arts and media design creative research and production. Students develop technical and critical proficiencies in design by applying problem-solving skills and exploring issues and ideas in digital arts and design; this is achieved by completing a series of individual and collaborative projects in a hands-on, digital studio setting.

## Learning Objectives

- Survey a range of artists and designers relevant to digital media, considering the historical context, influences, and impact of their work, with special consideration of underreprestend communities and the forces that have historically excluded them from such surveys.
- Chart the intersecting worlds (and vocabulary) of art, design, and popular culture in order to help students find their own professional path and develop their personal tastes.
- Study the fundamental elements and principles of design in order to become fluent in the syntax of visual communication.
- Experiment with design software and creative projects to implement fundamental design concepts in original work.

## Course structure

Each week we will focus on a different fundamental element or principle of design. In this use of the terms, an element is a compositional building block (something you put on the page, like a line) and a principle is how you use or arrange elements. Another popular list of design “rules” includes the Gestalt principles which describe more phenomenological ways of seeing (mental shortcuts, heuristics, or habits). For simplicity, I'm calling all of these terms **Fundamentals**.

Mastery of each Fundamental will be illustrated by a featured work of art or design in weekly **Case Studies**. To choose these featured works, I've enlisted additional faculty from the College of Art & Architecture to provide a range of perspectives from different fields related to digital art. This canon of significant work is highly personal and subjective — we don't even have enough weeks to include all of the Fundamental terms! Much less all of the incredible artists *and* designers that we might like to. But in touring the past century of art and technology, we have prioritized work by historically marginalized communities and sought to highlight the social and economic forces relevant to creative industries today.

Selected readings and discussions will be included to supplement certain Case Studies. 

**Exercises** will be relatively short, focusing on composition and the purposeful use of visual style, while touching on a range of project types (graphic design, illustration, animation, photography, and so on). Creating your own work through experimentation is essential to understanding the Fundamentals, as is discussion with your peers and instructor. 

After each exercise is submitted, you will provide feedback to your classmates during the following week. 

## 💻 Materials & Software

Most of our exercises will be completed in [Figma](https://www.figma.com), an industry standard tool for user interface design. We will not explicitly focus on UI design, although our focus on visual syntax and design conventions will be an excellent foundation for that. Figma is a relatively simple tool for creating 2D designs or artwork, and offers powerful features for collaboration. 

Many of our exercises will be completed in a shared workspace, where you can see other students working in the same file. We will cover the etiquette and safeguards of this shared workspace in the course materials. 

You must create a Figma education account with your PSU email, so you can join our Education Team where exercise files are located. 

Figma can be used in a web browser or you can download the desktop app. 

Readings will be provided in digital formats. 

### Computer Requirements

- **A modern computer**
    - Microsoft Windows 8.1 or above; or Apple OSX 10.13 (Yosemite) or above.
    - Dual-core processor; 2 GHz or faster.
    - 2GB Ram (8GB recommended)
    - 10GB available hard-disk space) with 30% unused hard-disk space
    - If using Figma in the browser:
        - Chrome 72+
        - Firefox 78+
        - Safari 14.1+
        - Microsoft Edge 79+
- **Internet**: You will need broadband Internet to view videos and other media content.
- **Camera or smartphone camera**: You will need a camera for at least one exercise
- **Access to a Printer:** You will need a printer for one of our exercises (you can visit your local print shop if needed)

## 📊 Assessment

Weekly exercises and comments will be assess with a simple rubric to ensure you submit things on time. 

Halfway through the class, you will have an opportunity to revise your work and submit a package of all completed exercises for a cumulative grade and feedback. This will happen again at the end of the semester, for the second group of exercises. 

A final project, including research and creative work, will also make up a significant part of your overall grade.

| Assignment Type | Percent of total grade |
| --- | --- |
| Exercises (initial submission) | 15% |
| Comments + Discussion | 10% |
| Cumulative Assessment 1  | 25% |
| Cumulative Assessment 2 | 25% |
| Final Board + Project | 25% |

### Late and Missed Work

Late work will be accepted at the discretion of your instructor. 

If you anticipate missing assignments or have other challenges to your classwork, please contact your instructor before the due date.

## 👋 Communication

I will post an Announcement every Monday to check-in about current work and share relevant articles or links. You can find these in Canvas at any time, but I recommend **checking your Canvas notifications** to ensure you receive these in your email every week.

The most valuable resources you have access to are your instructor and your classmates, so make use of them! It is a rare thing to have a discipline expert available to discuss your ideas and walk you through software, creative blocks, and other steps in your design process. The other students in your class are also important sources of ideas, and can become important professional contacts for you in the future if you get to know them now.

You can contact me via email or Canvas messenger, or message me privately in the DMD Slack or Discord. To schedule a Zoom meeting — which you will be required to do at least once — see the link at the top of this page.

## **🎓 Academic Integrity**

Penn State defines academic integrity as the pursuit of scholarly activity in an open, honest and responsible manner. Students taking classes in the School of Visual Arts are expected to uphold the principles of academic integrity, which means they do not “engage in or tolerate acts of falsification, misrepresentation or deception.” —From Penn State's University Faculty Senate Policy 49-2

Most instances where academic integrity is breached occur because students do not take enough care when completing a course assignment. Areas most in need of monitoring are Sources, Plagiarism and Citations.

### **Sources**

To complete assignments students need to consult sources. Printed books, reputable journals and magazines, museum websites, exhibition catalogs, are some common sources consulted. These sources carry the authority of information that has been open to peer review and can be traced and checked. Unreliable academic sources are those that merely present a personal view.

### **Plagiarism and AI Policy**

Plagiarism will not be tolerated. This includes any writing that is not originally written by the student, with the exception of quotes clearly marked and cited with attribution. In most cases where students are asked to submit writing, it is assumed the student is the primary author, and that AI tools are used to brainstorm, develop, or support original thoughts. Text copied-and-pasted from articles or AI-generators without significant modification will be detected and the relevant assignment may not receive any credit.

If you use an AI tool to support or edit your writing, include a note with your submission describing what tools or prompts you used, and how it impacted your writing. These tools are exciting and useful, but should not be used to avoid the work or critical thinking and articulating your thoughts with careful word choice.

Is writing generated by an AI plagiarism? I will leave you to consider that question and decide for yourself. Do some research into how these tools work and how it creates sentences. Conventional plagiarism refers to the use of writing from external sources that is presented as your own, without quotes and attribution. A student who commits plagiarism may be reported to university officials. The student’s behavior will be taken very seriously and dealt with according to the guidelines provided by Penn State University.

### **Citations and References**

Citations are a necessary part of writing papers, preparing artist statements, or any formal documentation that is part of your assignments for meeting program requirements. It is your responsibility to understand how to correctly cite sources. All information that has been directly quoted or paraphrased from ANY source needs to be cited within the text of your paper and listed in the Bibliography or References. Information used from unacknowledged sources may be considered plagiarism (see above).

### **Citation Guide**

Different systems of referencing use different methods of citing sources in academic writing and publication (e.g. MLA, Chicago and APA). All systems, however, follow the principle that directly quoted and paraphrased information needs to be cited, both within the text of your paper through parenthetical reference as well as at the end of the paper in a Bibliography or Reference list. See the following sites for guidance in citing sources:

- MLA: https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/747/01/
- APA: https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/560/01/
- Chicago: https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/717/01/

No matter what style guide you use, be consistent. In citing online sources, be sure to include the URL so others can locate your references.