# Symbol Spin

Exercise Format: Unique Pages in File
Figma File: Not started
ID: 12.3
Lesson: 12. Symmetry
Text: Ready for Review
Type: ⚡️ Exercise
Video: Recorded

## Objective

Create a hypnotizing, atmospheric animation utilizing imagery from a culture or community you are part of.

<aside>
📺 Video

</aside>

## Exercise Instructions

### 1. Identify source imagery

Consider your own culture — in whatever way you interpret that word: a community, family, ethnic group, national identity, religion, workplace, etc. If you’re anything like me, you might not have a strong connection to your ancestry or a clearly defined culture… but this is a nice opportunity to identify whatever hints of culture you do have in your life.

Find or create vector artwork that represents something from that culture. I recommend using one of the following icon sites, and downloading icons as SVG files (PNG or raster files will not work). You could draw simple line art or icons yourself if you want. 

Choose a few possible icons to play with!

**********************Icon Sites:**********************

- [The Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/) — My favorite, with the most detailed and unusual icons. The annual fee could be worth it if you use icons a lot, or you can delete the attribution from the free SVG files after you place them in Figma. 🤫
- [Icons8](https://icons8.com/) — Includes free and paid
- [Feather](https://feather.netlify.app/) — Open source icon set (also available as Figma plugin)
- [Boxicons](https://boxicons.com/) — Open source icon set
- [Iconify Figma Plugin](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/735098390272716381/Iconify)

### 2. Prepare assets

In the relevant Figma file, create a new Page for yourself; this Exercise will result in a Prototype animation, so we all need our own pages. 

**Create a Frame** sized to one of the Presentations templates (16:9 or 4:3). Choose a background color — a dark color would achieve the look of projected light seen in many of the animations featured in the Case Study.

**Import your icons.** Note that some may be filled shapes and some may be defined with visible strokes. If you’re using a Figma plugin, the icons may be placed inside tiny Frames — it might be easier to work with the icons if you move them outside of their respective Frames so they are just shapes.

### 3. Transform components

Using your icons, create a decorative composition that emphasizes symmetry. 

Right-click on a shape to reflect it horizontally or vertically. As seen in the video, you can split icons apart with Booleans or by editing their vector network points. The icons don’t have to be recognizable. It can be very abstract if you want, and trace amounts of the original icons will still imbue the design with references to your subject matter. 

**You must use a [shadow effect](https://www.notion.so/UI-Goodies-All-the-best-resources-for-designers-in-one-place-ae8deb44e71740e29531c927803e86fe) on some or all of your shapes** (inner shadow or drop shadow). 

By default shadows are set to a transparent black, but you can change the color (and blur and offset) to whatever you want! On a light background, shadows should probably be dark to imply cast light, giving shapes a material depth. On a dark background, dark shadows might not be visible at all, so you could use light-colored shadows to create a glowing effect. 

### 4. Animate frames

As we did in a previous exercise, duplicate your Frame to create additional “video keyframes”. Adjust the size, placement, or color of your shapes to create a looping animation. 

- Connect Frames in Prototype mode
- Set interactions to “After Delay” (1ms) and set animation to “Smart animate” (probably a large time value)

As seen in the video, to get something to rotate 360 degrees, you have to use four steps.

Hit the Play button ▶️ to make sure your animation works as intended.

## Submission

1. In the Figma file, select “File » Save to Version History” to ensure your work is saved. You will be prompted to enter a description, so just write “Finished!” or whatever message you like. This action is automatically associated with your username so you don’t need to write your name. 
2. Get the share link for the Prototype and submit that to Canvas.